Up to this point of the assessment,
you have identified threats,
you've created threat profiles,
and any other artifacts to document
information so that you can start analyzing each threat.
Until now, you can conduct impact assessments
and apply context to start prioritizing threats,
which is the ultimate goal here.
This process will vary depending on the company, for example,
I've worked with one company who preferred to
prioritize threats solely on financial impact to the company,
while another chose to prioritize based on the ones that were
most likely to impact critical operations and customer safety.
No matter what approach is taken,
it's good to have a standard way to evaluate threats.
In this basic example,
the threat is evaluated based on potential impact,
which can be defined many different ways.
It also considered likelihood of that impact being realized from this threat,
and what controls are in place to mitigate the threats.
Let's say you profiled three threats,
and need to know which one you should be most concerned about.
You can see in the example matrix that threat 2 has high impact, meaning, for example,
this threat could cost the company millions of dollars versus
something that might be rated low if the cost is under $10,000.
Threat 2 also has a high likelihood of
occurring with a low amount of existing security controls.
A low amount of controls could mean the system is missing
encryption or it doesn't have up-to-date security patching.
Whereas something rated high in
security controls might have all of those security measures in place and more.
Because the impact and likelihood of the threat are high and the controls are low,
threat 2 is of greater concern than threat 3, for example,
where they'll be impact and likelihood are high,
there are more controls in place to mitigate them.
Threat 1 is rated low all across,
so that's not the greatest concern here.
Based on this threat process,
you may conclude threat 2 is the greatest threat.
In many organizations, this information is
what feeds the next steps in the risk management process.
As you create the different categories that you use to evaluate threats,
and determine how you want to score or rate what's low or what's high,
those parameters should match up to your risk assessment process as well.